Naming
======
The LUE datamodel requires you to provide names for various things. Here, we provide guidelines we found useful. But if you don't like them, you can use whatever convention you like, ofcourse.


Style
-----
See `PEP 8 -- Style Guide for Python Code`_, especially the `section about naming conventions`_ for information about styling Python code in general. Given the information in PEP 8, we adopted the following naming rule for naming things in de LUE datamodel: "use lowercase with words separated by underscores as necessary to improve readability".


.. _PEP 8 -- Style Guide for Python Code: https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/
.. _section about naming conventions: https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/#naming-conventions


Naming datasets
---------------
A dataset contains zero or more universes and/or zero or more phenomena. Depending on what a dataset actually contains, different conventions seem useful.


Dataset containing universes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A universe reflects a system's state. Multiple universes allow for different versions of this state to be stored. The reason for this is often to compare model or data scenarios, for example:

- The name of a comparison study
- ...

It is also possible to store different phenomena in different universes, but this does not seem to make sense. Such unrelated phenomena can better be stored in multiple datasets.


Dataset containing phenomena
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The collection of phenomena in the dataset reflects a system's state. A dataset with only phenomena is comparable to a single universe. See :ref:`naming_universes` for more information.


Dataset containing universes and phenomena
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This is a special case of a dataset containing only universes. For some state the dataset contains multiple versions (in the universes), and for other state the dataset contains one version (in the phenomena).


.. _naming_universes:

Naming universes
----------------
A universe reflects a system's state. The name of the universe can be based on some common characteristic of the state, or some combination thereof, for example:

- The name of the output phenomenon generated by a model
- The name of the model which generated the output state
- The geographic area which is covered by the state
- The temporal period which is covered by the state
- ...


Naming phenomena
----------------
A phenomenon represents a collection (population, group) of items (agents, objects, individuals). Especially when the items are representing real-world things, like cars and dogs, the name of the phenomenon can reflect that: ``cars``, ``dogs``. If this is not the case, it can become more difficult to come up with a good name. Sometimes, a phenomenon contains only a domain and no properties. In that case the characteristic of the domain can be used to name the phenomenon, e.g.: ``points``, ``positions``, ``routes``, ``dates``.

If there are multiple items in a phenomenon, we think it makes more sense to use a plural name than a singular one. Sometimes, though, there is only a single item in a phenomenon, and a singular name is OK.


Naming properties
-----------------
Properties are the easiest to name. Just use whatever the property represents, e.g.: ``color``, ``name``, ``height``.
